qSubmission Call for Online Exhibition
Immersive Expressions: Virtual Reality on the Web
Virtual Reality presents a range of new possibilities for immersive expression and interactivity for artists and developers. The ACM SIGGRAPH Digital Arts Community is seeking projects for an online exhibition that explores the web browser as a medium for work at the intersection of creative expression and virtual reality. VR has had an exceptionally fast growing user base over the past three years with head mounted display options becoming increasingly portable and affordable. Along with the growing list of hardware variations like the Oculus Rift, HTC Vive, or PlayStation VR a number of new distribution models have also been released such as HTC Viveport, Oculus Store, Samsung VR or WEARVR. While much of the content delivered on these platforms are made to be experienced inside of game engines, VR has also made its way to the browser through a variety of projects using WebGL and three.js. 


We are looking to showcase and discover new content that pushes conceptual or technological boundaries. It is important that these works be web-based. Online VR works are unique because they exist in the browser, unlike apps relegated to approval by a major distributor. We hope to engage indie developers, artists, computer scientists, and companies working at the forefront of web-based VR through the development of the exhibition. 


The WebVR W3C Specification Draft has laid the foundation for content designers to build frameworks and applications for a multitude of browsers and hardware devices. This includes VR initiatives such as Mozilla's MozVR Team (mozvr.com) and accompanying A-Frame javascript framework. Oculus has also announced the ReactVR framework for enabling web-based VR experiences on the Rift in addition to inexpensive head-mounted displays such as Google Cardboard, Daydream View, or Samsung Gear.   Artists and developers new to the WebVR arena are encouraged to apply and can take advantage of these resources.


We also encourage VR experiences and interactions that might not fit inside a typical commercial package. This includes works that are more abstract and conceptual, or those created by independent developers with a unique approach to virtual reality. Criteria for inclusion will involve technological innovation, creativity, design, and concept. Submissions could potentially include interactive experiments, games, animation, 360-degree film experiences or a hybrid approach. This call for work welcomes artistic interpretation and collaborations working from any discipline or intersection of art, science, design, and technology.


Submit your work and learn more about the show at: siggraphdigitalarts.hosting.acm.org/immersiveexpressions. For a list of resources helpful in getting started with WebVR see: https://lsuatlab.github.io/webvrnotes. Visit the ACM SIGGRAPH Digital Arts Community website at: siggrapharts.ning.com. Last year's exhibition site can be viewed here: science-unseen.siggraph.org. For more information contact arts@siggraph.org. 


Timeline:
Submissions Open: November 20, 2016
Submissions Close: March 1, 2017
Notification of Acceptance: March 23, 2017
Exhibition Launch: April 30, 2017
